## AIRAC 2301

Not released due to a lack of applicable changes.


## AIRAC 2302

### Revision A

#### ANR Updates

**Glentanner**

  -  Amendment to the existing `RNP A`.
  -  `MAMUS 3` resequenced after review.
  -  Runway bearing update.

**Nelson**

  -  MAGVAR update.

**New Plymouth**

  -  All SIDs and STARs have been resequenced by one, following minor track and minima changes.

**Tauranga**

  -  Removal of the `ODOLO` transition from all SIDs.

**Standard Routes**

  - The following Standard Routes have been updated: `PMWN1`, `NPAA3`, `NPCH1`, `NPWN1`, `NPWN5`, `WNCH3`, `WNCH4`, `WNDN1`, `WNDN7`, `WNNV2`, `WNNV4`, `WNNP1`, `WNWP2`, `WNWP4`.
  - The following Standard Routes have been removed: `HNAR3`
  - These have been updated in the Standard Route tool, and will update next time you launch the vatSys plugin, or standalone application.


#### Dataset Updates

  - Addition of minor translations to the ATIS parser. Thanks to @zkaviator.
  - Amendment of DefaultJurisdiction to include better automatic sector ownership for TMAs.
  - Amended some procedures where an IAF was incorrectly entered as an IF. 
  - Amended some procedures where a mandatory fly-over fix had been entered, instead of a fly-by fix.

**Procedure Checker**

We have a new procedure checker, which cross-checks the procedures in the database against the promulgated Part 95 procedure sheets. Thanks to this, a few errors have been caught:

  - NZAA `UKAPA #D` STAR had the incorrect revision number.
  - Spelling error in the NZDN `AKLAR 2B` SID name.
  - Removal of the NZGS `CREEK`, `WARIK` and `OTOKO` STARs.
  - Reassigned the NZMO `GULAN 2` SID to both runways.
  - NZNP `BUGNO 1B` and `HARVO 1Q` had the incorrect revision number.
  - Spelling error in the NZNS `IDNEM 2P` SID name.
  - NZWP `BAYES` and `WYTAK` open SIDs had the incorrect revision number.
  - Removal of the NZWT SIDs.

**ENR and TMA Sector Bounds**

We have made the following changes to ENR sectors:

  - AA TMA: Added `DAVEE` TMA step on the border with RAN.
  - HN TMA: Realigned the eastern border to the RAN/BAY border, and extended further south.
  - OCR/RAN/BAY: Realigned border to better match surrounding ENRs and TMAs.
  - ENR and TMA sector maps updated.
  - Re-export of existing TMA and Procedural Tower bounds to produce a smoother arc (vertex every 5 degrees now.)
  - Slight realignment of the underlying Sector Volume definitions.


### Revision B

The `DefaultJurisdiction.xml` file intoduced in Cycle 2302 was faulting, causing aircraft tags on the ground at NZCH and NZQN to not appear in ADEP windows. We have rolled back to the previous version of this file.


## AIRAC 2303

Not released due to a lack of applicable changes.


## AIRAC 2304

### Revision A

#### ANR Updates

  - The following VRPs have been added: `GLASSHOUSE`
  - The following airways routes have been established: `W139`, `KQ717`, `Z305`
  - Various IFR waypoints have been added.

**Auckland**

  - The following procedures have been reviewed and resequenced: `BROOK 3Q`, `SATLA 3Q`, `FIRTH 3P`, `LENGU 4P`, `BASIV 2N`, `FOKRE 3A`, `TAZEY 3E`, `TAZEY 2N`.
  - The `EMRAG 2B` departure has been amended to `EMRAG 1Q`.
  - The following STARs have been added: `BOVRU 1A`, `IBESO 1B`, `IBESO 1D`.
  - The `LENGU 4P` has been resequenced, and the `WP VOR` transition removed.

**Hamilton**

  - The `TAYLA 2` and `BUDEN 3` departures have been amended to `TAYLA 3V` and `BUDEN 4V`.

**Ohakea**

  - Following some changes to the MSA, the following procedures have been resequenced: `BINIT 2H`, `BINIT 2G`, `IDLUR 2G`.

**Queenstown**

  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `ANPOV 4A`, `DOVMA 3A`, `IPNOR 4A`, `ANPOV 4B`, `IPNOR 4B`, `REDOL 2B`

#### Dataset Updates

  - Changed conflict alert critera for QN TMA to 3nm
  - Removed NZAA-F_APP, and assigned that frequency to NZAA_DEP.
  - Updated previously missed NZWN VFR Procedures.


## AIRAC 2305

Not released due to lack of applicable changes.


## AIRAC 2306

### Revision A

#### ANR Updates

  -  Various IFR waypoints have been added, including the replacement of `RUGVI` with `AVKAB`.
  -  Various airways have been amended or added.

**Auckland**

  - The following procedures have been added: `LUNBI 1N`.
  - The Auckland Airport helipad has now been completely removed.

**Christchurch**

  - The following hold has been added for multiple procedures: `ELDAK`.

**Dunedin**

  - The following procedure has been added: `MIPAK 1C`.

**Palmerston North**
  
  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `RUXOX 4Q`, `RUXOX 5S`, `DADLI 3Q`, `DADLI 4S`, `DADLI 4T`, `TEROT 4Q`, `TEROT 4S`, `GUTNI 3U`, `GUTNI 4T`, `GUTNI 4R`, `GUTNI 3P`.

**Taupo**

  - Procedural fixes on RNP approaches have been replaced by ICAO 5LNC wpts.
  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `MINEK 3`, `GOSTI 3A`, `ISGIT 2A`, `SULFA 3A`, `TEREG 3`, `GOSTI 3B`, `ISGIT 1B`, `SULFA 3B`. 

**Standard Routes**

The following Standard Routes have been updated or added: `AAPM5`, `HNPM5`, `NPPM1`, `PMAA6`, `PMNP2`, `PMWU1`, `WUPM3`.

#### Dataset Updates

The following procedures have been added or amended:
  - `NZAA BOVRU 1B`: Had an `A` designator, instead of a `B` designator.
  - `NZAP GUMAN 1B`: Was missing, and has been added.


# Latest

## AIRAC 2308

### Revision A

#### ANR Updates

  -  New Aerodrome added: `NZOI - Ongaio Island`
  -  New Restricted Area added: `NZR404 - Mahia`

**Auckland**

  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `REKIS 4Q`, `STEAL 2P`.
    - **Changes:** Departure text amended to no longer allow a turn to fix before the end of the runway.

**Queenstown**

  - The procedures have been amended and resequenced: `VAPLI 2`. 
    - **Changes:** Minor track changes to departure. `SUNGU` transition added.

**Tauranga**

  - Most STARs have been amended and resequenced by one. 
    - **Changes:** Segment MSAs.
  - `OLDON 2A`: WPT `BATAT` replaced by `MEZZO`.

**Te Anau / Manapouri**

  - The following procedures have been amended and resequenced: `GULAN 3`.
    - **Changes:** `ENKUV` transition removed.

**Standard Routes**

  - The following Standard Routes have been amended: `AACH1` and `AACH6`.
    - **Changes:** `AACH1` is now Jets only, with the `AACH6` now being props only.

#### Dataset Updates

The following errors have been fixed:
  - `NZGB RNP B`: Added missing procedural waypoint: `GB678`.
  - `NZHA RNP RWY 32`: Replaced `HA906` with 5LNC `OMUNU`.